.TH ASSET_OPT 1 "January 2025" "asset_opt 1.0.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
asset_opt \- analyze and optimize Flutter/Dart project assets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asset_opt
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B asset_opt
scans Flutter project assets, detects optimization opportunities,
and can automatically optimize images for reduced file sizes.
.PP
It analyzes assets defined in pubspec.yaml, detecting large files,
inefficient formats, oversized dimensions, and unused assets.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-path =\fIPATH\fR
Path to Flutter project root. Default: current directory.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-analyze
Only analyze assets without optimizing.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-optimize
Optimize assets after analysis.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quality =\fINUM\fR
JPEG quality (1-100). Default: 85.
.TP
.BR \-\-preset =\fINAME\fR
Use optimization preset from config file.
.TP
.BR \-\-report\-dir =\fIDIR\fR
Directory to save reports. Default: asset_opt_reports.
.TP
.BR \-\-init
Create default asset_opt.yaml config file.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show detailed output.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output (useful for CI).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Analyze assets in current directory:
.B asset_opt \-\-analyze
.TP
Analyze and optimize:
.B asset_opt \-\-optimize
.TP
Use custom quality and path:
.B asset_opt \-p /path/to/project \-q 80 \-\-optimize
.TP
Create config file:
.B asset_opt \-\-init
.TP
Use preset from config:
.B asset_opt \-\-optimize \-\-preset thumbnails
.SH CONFIGURATION
Create \fBasset_opt.yaml\fR in project root:
.PP
.nf
optimization:
  jpeg_quality: 85
  webp_quality: 80
  strip_metadata: true
  convert_png_to_webp: true

limits:
  max_file_size: 1MB
  max_dimensions: 2000

presets:
  thumbnails:
    max_dimensions: 200
    jpeg_quality: 75

exclude:
  - "**/test/assets/*"
.fi
.SH SUPPORTED FORMATS
PNG, JPEG, WebP, SVG, GIF (analysis only)
.SH FILES
.TP
.I asset_opt.yaml
Project configuration file.
.TP
.I asset_opt_reports/
Generated analysis reports.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/asset_opt/
Cached native binaries.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/aikins01/asset_opt/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Aikins Laryea.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flutter (1),
.BR dart (1),
.BR cwebp (1),
.BR pngquant (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License. See LICENSE file in source distribution.
